for our kids today we're going to go
over the lathe what to look for when
buying one and how to use some of the
basic functions the lathe has two ends
the headstock which spins the tailstock
which says stays still so what the lathe
is usually measured in is a between
centers measurement which as if there
was a center in this end and this the
tailstock was pushed back as far as it
could go it is the distance between
there and there in mind though there's
22 inches another typical measurement of
the lathe is what they call the center
height now generally speaking they'll
give a figure as a swing measurement
when you're purchasing a lathe now the
English generally refer to the swing as
the distance between the center point
where the center would stand to the bed
whereas typically now our laser be given
in the American style of measurement
which is the radius so say a seven by
fourteen hobby lathe the Americans would
refer to that as a seven by fourteen
meaning it can we can turn a seven inch
radius a seven inch diameter while the
in England or in the UK that would have
traditionally been referred to as a
three and a half by fourteen meaning
that it had three and a half inches
between here and here some of the
smaller layers might have just three
speeds or perhaps a pulse width
modulated DC motor which means it may
not have any gears at all this one is a
six-speed gearbox the spindle speeds are
listed on this plate here going from a
hundred and forty revolutions per minute
to seventeen ten revolutions per minute
and all the speeds in in between so I
can just change these by adjusting these
levers of course it's not like a car
gearbox or it goes in smoothly I
actually have to sometimes work these in
so of course you're going to make sure
that it's done while there while the
machine is not in operation
so we've got it currently in speed
number two which is 250 revolutions per
minute and we can just switch it between
those keys depending on what work we're
doing one of the things is particularly
that's probably missing on is a gearbox
to change the lead screw this one has
changeable gears so I can change the
rotation I'm given a little table here
an assortment of change gears so that I
can choose what speed I want the lead
screw to be spinning it we better of
course if we had a gearbox like the one
shown here to change the lead screw
speed but better features like that
often just increases the cost oftentimes
when you buy the lathe you man they get
the center or even no centers at all now
it's going to be pretty much essential
that you buy centers one it's going to
fit your headstock one is going to fit
your tail stock whatever sizes they may
be if you're going to upgrade the
machine one of the things that would
very much recommend is a Chuck that will
fit your tail stock this is a keyless
chuck I find this incredibly useful I
can drill holes in the work just using
standard high speed Steel's twist drills
and this is actually a twenty two
millimeter twist drill you've probably
seen on the other videos if you've seen
them I bought this specifically because
it's the outside diameter of a standard
608 Z Zed skate bearing I use them a lot
because I can buy them wholesale
probably the next thing I'd recommend as
an upgrade is a four jaw Chuck like this
just be careful of any work that you've
got chucked in there that it's not going
to hit the bed now I have this set of
carbide tip tools these have replaceable
tips so when the tips actually break or
crack they can be replaced simply by I'm
doing this very small allen bolt and
they can be spun around each one can be
used four times on it on a tool like
this or just replaced with a new one
which I keep inside this small plastic
bag the fact that we we could learn how
to grind our own tools as high speed
still means
that we could do any of these make the
tools double-ended and also make custom
one-off tools for a certain job it's
definitely a skill that I would
recommend people to learn maybe we can
cover that in the future so we've
covered most of the basics so make sure
you have fun while you are milling and
keep safe